Basic elements of CNC:
1. Program
2. MCU(Machine control unit)
3. Processing equipments

Part Program of instructions:
It is the set of detailed step by step commands that directs the action of processing equipments. These commands 
defines the position of machine tool expindel with respect to the work table. These commands also defines cutting tool 
path, spindel speed, tool changes, coolent on and off and several other functions of machine tool that can be automatically
control.

Machine control Units(MCU):
The machine control unit is a micro computer and related to a c0mputer hardware that stores thge programe of computer instructions and excutes it by converting each command 
into to machanical actionsof the procseesing equipments, one command at a time.

Processing Unit equipments:
It perform the actual productive work. It accomplishes the processing steps to transform the starting work peice into a completed work part.

CNC:
It is defined as an NC system whose MCU is based on micro computer rather that hard wire controller.

Need of CNC systems:
CNC systems have become very popular in industries, this is because even hoghly skilled worker can not assure accuracy and equality on conventionnal machine tool
, where on a CNC machine even a semi skilled worker can virtual ensure ensure 0 rejection. Where ever higher accuracy is desired, at the same time
change in the types of jobs is to frequent, immeplementing a CNC system is the only answer.

Features of CNC:
1. Storage of more that one part Program.
    With imporvemt in computer storage technlogy the newer CNC controller has sufficient capicity to store multiple programs.
    Controller manufactures generally offer one or more memory expansions as options to the MCU.
2. Various forms of program input.
    CNC controllers generally posses multiple data entry copabilities such as punch tape, magnetic tape, floppy disk, manual data input.
Interpolation:
linear and circular interpolation are sometime hard wire into the control unit, but hallical, circular interpolation are controlled by stored algorithm.

Program editteing a5t the machine tool:
CNC permitted to a part program yto be editted while it reside in the MCU computer memory. hence a program can be tested and coeeceted entirely at the macine site, 
rather than being returned to the programming office for corrections.